ReadMe.md, before:

# NVSRAM Library
© 2020 Guglielmo Braguglia

---



This library enables you to read and write into Microchip NVSRAM 23LCV512 (64K x 8 bit) and 23LCV1024 (128K x 8 bit), battery-backed SPI RAM.

The NVSRAM is great for moving data in and out for applications, without worrying about read-write cycles, wear and power consumption. By simply adding a battery, the NVSRAM can retain data even after power loss and data retention is limited only by the battery capacity.  

Microchip's battery-backed SRAM devices 23LCVxxxx have true unlimited read and write cycles, lower standby current (about 4µA), a wider voltage range and can be accessed via an SPI (or SDI) serial bus for fast data transfers.


### Library usage and functions

##### Memory selection

Firts of all, you have to choose if the library should compile for 23LCV512 (64K x 8 bit - *default*) or for 23LCV1024 (128K x 8 bit). To do this, it is necessary to remove / insert a comment in front of the two-line that you can found at the beginning of the NVSRAM.h file of the library.

By default, on lines 31 and 32  you have:


```
#define NVSRAM_512  
// #define NVSRAM_1024
```


which is the configuration for the 23LCV512 (64K x 8 bit). If you want to compile for the 23LCV1024 (128K x 8 bit) you have to move the comment from the second line to the first line to have:


```
// #define NVSRAM_512  
#define NVSRAM_1024
```


##### Library functions

To use this library you have to add, at the beginning of your program:

```
#include <NVSRAM.h>
```


To **instantiate** the classe you have to use the NVSRAM constructor that takes two parameters: the first one is the CS pin number that you have chosen and is ++mandatory++, the second one is a boolean to indicate if you want to initialize the SPI bus or not, it is ++optional++ and its default value is **true**.

Example:

```
NVSRAM myNVSRAM( 10 );
```
... or, if you **don't want** to initialize the SPI bus (*since you **already do** this manually in your program*) :


```
NVSRAM myNVSRAM( 10, false );
```


---

##### erase( )

Write 0x00 into all cells of the NVSRAM erasing the memory.

Example:

```
myNVSRAM.erase( );
```


---

##### length( )

Return the address of the last memory byte or the size of the memory.

e.g. myLong = myNVSRAM.length( );

---

##### read( )

Read a byte from NVSRAM. Requires the address of byte to read.

Example:

```
myByte = myNVSRAM.read( myAddress );
```

---

##### write( )

Write a byte into NVSRAM. Requires the address and the value to write.

Example:

```
myNVSRAM.write( myAddress, myByte );
```


---

##### update( )

Only for compatibility with the methods of the EEPROM library; does the same thing as write() and have the same syntax.

Example:

```
myNVSRAM.update( myAddress, myByte );
```

---

##### get( )

Read any data type or object from the NVSRAM. Requires the address and return the read data or object.

Example:

```
myData = myNVSRAM.get( myAddress );
```

---

##### put( )

Write any data type or object to the NVSRAM. Requires the address and the data to write.

Example:

```
myNVSRAM.put( myAddress, myData );
```

---

##### crc( )

Compute and return the crc16 (uint16_t) of a block of bytes in NVSRAM. Requires the starting address of the block and the number of bytes to include in the computation.

Example:


```
myCRC16 = myNVSRAM.crc( myAddress, myLength );
```


---


##### NVSRAM [ ]

This operator allows you using your **instance**, to the class NVSRAM, like an array to **read** a byte.

Example:

```
myByte = myNVSRAM[ myAddress ];
```

---

Commit message:

Update befor public release
Update to allow custom SPI bus initialization parametres

ReadMe.md, after:

# NVSRAM Library
© 2020 Guglielmo Braguglia

---



This library enables you to read and write into Microchip NVSRAM 23LCV512 (64K x 8 bit) and 23LCV1024 (128K x 8 bit), battery-backed SPI RAM.

The NVSRAM is great for moving data in and out for applications, without worrying about read-write cycles, wear and power consumption. By simply adding a battery, the NVSRAM can retain data even after power loss and data retention is limited only by the battery capacity.  

Microchip's battery-backed SRAM devices 23LCVxxxx have true unlimited read and write cycles, lower standby current (about 4µA), a wider voltage range and can be accessed via an SPI (or SDI) serial bus for fast data transfers.


### Library usage and initialization

##### Memory selection

Firts of all, you have to choose if the library should compile for 23LCV512 (64K x 8 bit - *default*) or for 23LCV1024 (128K x 8 bit). To do this, it is necessary to remove / insert a comment in front of the two-line that you can found at the beginning of the NVSRAM.h file of the library.

By default, on lines 31 and 32  you have:


```
#define NVSRAM_512  
// #define NVSRAM_1024
```


which is the configuration for the 23LCV512 (64K x 8 bit). If you want to compile for the 23LCV1024 (128K x 8 bit) you have to move the comment from the second line to the first line to have:


```
// #define NVSRAM_512  
#define NVSRAM_1024
```


To use this library you have to add, at the beginning of your program:

```
#include <NVSRAM.h>
```


To **instantiate** the classe you have to use the NVSRAM constructor that takes two parameters: the first one is the CS pin number that you have chosen and is ++mandatory++, the second one is a boolean to indicate if you want to initialize the SPI bus (*and configure the chip*) or not, it is ++optional++ and its default value is **true**.

Example:

```
NVSRAM myNVSRAM( 10 );
```
... or, if you **don't want** to initialize the SPI bus (*since you **do** this manually in your program*) :


```
NVSRAM myNVSRAM( 10, false );
```

... but, in this case (*and only in this case*), **before** using the NVSRAM, **you ++MUST++ call** the begin() method to configure the chip:


```
myNVSRAM.begin();
```


---

### Library methods

##### erase( )

Write 0x00 into all cells of the NVSRAM erasing the memory.

Example:

```
myNVSRAM.erase( );
```


---

##### length( )

Return the address of the last memory byte or the size of the memory.

e.g. myLong = myNVSRAM.length( );

---

##### read( )

Read a byte from NVSRAM. Requires the address of byte to read.

Example:

```
myByte = myNVSRAM.read( myAddress );
```

---

##### write( )

Write a byte into NVSRAM. Requires the address and the value to write.

Example:

```
myNVSRAM.write( myAddress, myByte );
```


---

##### update( )

Only for compatibility with the methods of the EEPROM library; does the same thing as write() and have the same syntax.

Example:

```
myNVSRAM.update( myAddress, myByte );
```

---

##### get( )

Read any data type or object from the NVSRAM. Requires the address and return the read data or object.

Example:

```
myData = myNVSRAM.get( myAddress );
```

---

##### put( )

Write any data type or object to the NVSRAM. Requires the address and the data to write.

Example:

```
myNVSRAM.put( myAddress, myData );
```

---

##### crc( )

Compute and return the crc16 (uint16_t) of a block of bytes in NVSRAM. Requires the starting address of the block and the number of bytes to include in the computation.

Example:


```
myCRC16 = myNVSRAM.crc( myAddress, myLength );
```


---


##### NVSRAM [ ]

This operator allows you using your **instance**, to the class NVSRAM, like an array to **read** a byte.

Example:

```
myByte = myNVSRAM[ myAddress ];
```

---
